[Doc] Update hello world (#6191)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/lang/articles/get-started/index.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Hello, World!

Taichi is a domain-specific language embedded in Python and designed specifically for high-performance, parallel computing.

> When writing compute-intensive tasks in Python, you can take advantage of Taichi's high performance computation by following a few extra rules. Generally, Taichi provides two decorators `@ti.func` and `@ti.kernel`, which instruct Taichi to take over the implementation of the tasks. Its just-in-time (JIT) compiler compiles the decorated functions to machine code, and all subsequent calls to these functions are executed on multi-CPU cores or GPUs. In a typical compute-intensive scenario, such as a numerical simulation, Taichi can accelerate performance by 50x~100x compared with native Python code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When writing compute-intensive tasks in Python, you can take advantage of Taichi's high performance computation by following a few extra rules. Generally, Taichi provides two decorators `@ti.func` and `@ti.kernel`, which instruct Taichi to take over the implementation of the tasks. Its just-in-time (JIT) compiler compiles the decorated functions to machine code, and all subsequent calls to these functions are executed on multi-core CPUs or GPUs. In a typical compute-intensive scenario, such as a numerical simulation, Taichi can accelerate performance by 50x~100x compared with native Python code.
```

Let's dive into this simple Taichi program.

### Import Taichi

```python
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm
```

The first two lines import Taichi and its `math` module. The `math` module contains some frequently used math functions and built-in vectors and matrices of small dimensions, such as `vec2` for 2D real vectors and `mat3` for 3 x 3 real matrices. See the [Math Module](../math/math.md) for more information.

```python
ti.init(arch=ti.gpu)
```

> This line calls `ti.init()` to initialize environment variables. This function accepts several arguments to allow you to customize your runtime program. For now, we only introduce the most important argument, namely, `arch`.

Author: ```suggestion
This line calls `ti.init()` to customize your Taichi runtime depending on the arguments passed into it. For now, we only introduce the most important argument, namely, `arch`.
```

The argument `arch` specifies the *backend* that executes the compiled code. A backend can be either `ti.cpu` or `ti.gpu`. When `ti.gpu` is designated, Taichi opts for `ti.cuda`, `ti.vulkan`, or `ti.opengl/ti.metal` in descending order of preference. If no GPU architecture is available, Taichi falls back to your CPU device.

> You can also directly specify which GPU backend to use. For example, set `arch=ti.cuda` to run your program on CUDA. Taichi raises an error if the target architecture is unavailable.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also directly specify which GPU backend to use. For example, set `arch=ti.cuda` to run your program on CUDA. Taichi raises an error if the target architecture is unavailable. See the [Global Settings] for more information on `ti.init()`.
```

> You can also directly specify which GPU backend to use. For example, set `arch=ti.cuda` to run your program on CUDA. Taichi raises an error if the target architecture is unavailable. See the [Global Settings] for more information on `ti.init()`.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also directly specify which GPU backend to use. For example, set `arch=ti.cuda` to run your program on CUDA. Taichi raises an error if the target architecture is unavailable. See the [Global Settings](../reference/global_settings.md) for more information on `ti.init()`.
```

> You can also directly specify which GPU backend to use. For example, set `arch=ti.cuda` to run your program on CUDA. Taichi raises an error if the target architecture is unavailable. See the [Global Settings](../reference/global_settings.md) for more information on `ti.init()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also directly specify which GPU backend to use. For example, set `arch=ti.cuda` to run your program on CUDA. Taichi raises an error if the target architecture is unavailable. See the [Global Settings](../reference/global_settings.md) for more information about `ti.init()`.
```
See ... for more information about ...

Let's dive into this simple Taichi program.

### Import Taichi

```python
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm
```

The first two lines import Taichi and its `math` module. The `math` module contains:

> - Frequently used math functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Frequently-used math functions.
```

pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))
```

> The code snippet defines a field whose shape is (640, 320) and whose elements are floating-point data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code snippet defines a field whose shape is (640, 320) and whose elements are floating-point numbers.
```

`field` is the most important and frequently used data structure in Taichi. You can compare it to NumPy's `ndarray` or PyTorch's `tensor`. But Taichi's `field` is more versatile and flexible than the two counterparts. For example, a Taichi field can be [spatially sparse](../basic/sparse.md) and can easily [switch between different data layouts](../basic/layout.md).

> You will come across the advanced features of `field` in other scenario-based tutorials. For now, it suffices for you to understand that the field `pixels` is a dense 2D array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will introduce more advanced features of field in other scenario-based tutorials. For now, it suffices to know that the field `pixels` is a dense 2D array.
```

### Kernels and functions

> Lines 9~22 define two functions, one decorated with `@ti.func` and the other with `@ti.kernel`. They are called a *Taichi function* and a *kernel*, respectively. Taichi functions and kernels are not executed by Python's interpreter; they are taken over by Taichi's JIT compiler and deployed to your parallel CPU cores or GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lines 9~22 define two functions, one decorated with `@ti.func` and the other with `@ti.kernel`. They are called *Taichi function* and *kernel* respectively. Taichi functions and kernels are not executed by Python's interpreter but taken over by Taichi's JIT compiler and deployed to your parallel multi-core CPU or GPU.
```

The main differences between Taichi functions and kernels:

- Kernels are the entry points where Taichi kicks in and takes over the task. A kernel can be called anywhere, anytime in your program, while a Taichi function can only be called from inside a kernel or from inside another Taichi function. In the example above, the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is called by the kernel `paint`.

> - A kernel *must* take type-hinted arguments and return type-hinted results. But Taichi functions do not require type hinting compulsorily. In the example above, the argument `t` in the kernel `paint` is type hinted, but the argument `z` in the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A kernel *must* take type-hinted arguments and return type-hinted results. But Taichi functions do not require type hinting. In the example above, the argument `t` in the kernel `paint` is type hinted; the argument `z` in the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is not.
```
@Olinaaaloompa "require" is synonymous with "compulsory".

> - Taichi *supports* nested functions but *does not support* nested kernels. Calling Taichi functions recursively is *not supported*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Taichi *supports* nested functions but *does not support* nested kernels. 
- Taichi *does not* support recursive Taichi function calls.
```

> - Taichi *supports* nested functions but *does not support* nested kernels. Calling Taichi functions recursively is *not supported for now*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Taichi *supports* nested functions but *does not support* nested kernels. Calling Taichi functions recursively is *not supported*.
```

pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))
```

The code snippet defines a field whose shape is (640, 320) and whose elements are floating-point numbers.

> *field* is the most important and frequently used data structure in Taichi. You can compare it to NumPy's `ndarray` or PyTorch's `tensor`. But Taichi's field is more flexible than the two counterparts. For example, a Taichi field can be [spatially sparse](../basic/sparse.md) and can easily [switch between different data layouts](../basic/layout.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*field* is the most important and frequently used data structure in Taichi. You can compare it to NumPy's `ndarray` or PyTorch's `tensor`. But Taichi's field is more flexible. For example, a Taichi field can be [spatially sparse](../basic/sparse.md) and easily [switched between different data layouts](../basic/layout.md).
```

We will introduce more advanced features of field in other scenario-based tutorials. For now, it suffices to know that the field `pixels` is a dense 2D array.

### Kernels and functions

Lines 9~22 define two functions, one decorated with `@ti.func` and the other with `@ti.kernel`. They are called *Taichi function* and *kernel* respectively. Taichi functions and kernels are not executed by Python's interpreter but taken over by Taichi's JIT compiler and deployed to your parallel multi-core CPU or GPU.

The main differences between Taichi functions and kernels:

> - Kernels are the entry points where Taichi kicks in and takes over the task. A kernel can be called anywhere, anytime in your program, while a Taichi function can only be called from inside a kernel or from inside another Taichi function. In the example above, the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is called by the kernel `paint`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kernels are the entry points where Taichi kicks in and takes over the task. A kernel can be called anywhere, anytime in your program, while a Taichi function can be called only from inside a kernel or from inside another Taichi function. In the example above, the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is called by the kernel `paint`.
```

            total += i * j

    if total > 10:

>         for k in range(5):  # Not parallelized: not at the outermost scope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        for k in range(5):  # Not parallelized because it is not at the outermost scope
```

            total += i * j

    if total > 10:
        for k in range(5):  # Not parallelized: not at the outermost scope
```

> You can also serialize a parallel for loop at the outermost scope via `ti.loop_config(serialize=True)`. See [Serialize a specified parallel for loop](../debug/debugging.md#serialize-a-specified-parallel-for-loop) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also serialize a for loop at the outermost scope using `ti.loop_config(serialize=True)`. See [Serialize a specified parallel for loop](../debug/debugging.md#serialize-a-specified-parallel-for-loop) for more information.
```

### Display the result

Lines 18~23 render the result on your screen using Taichi's built-in [GUI System](../visualization/gui_system.md):

```python
gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))
# Sets the window title and the resolution

for i in range(1000000):
    paint(i * 0.03)
    gui.set_image(pixels)
    gui.show()
```

> The program iterates over `pixels` 1,000,000 times, and the fractal pattern stored in `pixels` is updated accordingly. Call `gui.set_image()` to set the window and `gui.show()` to display the synchronized result on the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The program iterates over `pixels` 1,000,000 times, and the fractal pattern stored in `pixels` is updated accordingly. Call `gui.set_image()` to set the window and `gui.show()` to display the synchronized result on your screen.
```

### Key takeaways

Congratulations! After walking through the short example above, you have learned the most significant features of Taichi:

- Taichi compiles and runs Taichi functions and kernels on the specified backend.

> - The for loop at the outermost scope in a kernel is automatically parallelized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- for loops at the outermost scope in a Taichi kernel are automatically parallelized.
```

- Taichi provides a flexible data container field, and you can use indices to loop over a field.

## Taichi examples

> The Julia fractal is one of the representative demos Taichi provides. Run the following command in your terminal to view more selected demos in Taichi gallery:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Julia fractal is one of the representative demos Taichi provides. To view more selected demos in Taichi gallery:
```

```bash
ti gallery
```

This window appears:

<center>

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/taichi-gallery.png)

</center>

> To access the full list of Taichi examples, run `ti example` instead. Other useful command lines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the full list of Taichi examples, run `ti example`. Other useful command lines:
```
